= gepub

* http://github.com/skoji/gepub

== DESCRIPTION:

a generic EPUB parser/generator library.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* GEPUB::Book provides functionality to create ncx/opf, and epub file.

* opf: can't specify creators with role
* opf: can't specify date with event
* opf: unique-identifier's scheme is fixed to 'URL'
* ncx: can't nest navPoint elements
* ...and many other restrictions

* GEPUB::Generator has been removed. Use GEPUB::Book instead.

== SYNOPSIS:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'gepub'
  require 'fileutils'

  epubname = "testepub.epub"
  title = "samplepub"

  epub = GEPUB::Book.new(title)
  epub.author="the author"
  epub.publisher="the publisher"
  epub.date = "2010-11-27"
  epub.identifier = "http://www.skoji.jp/testepub/2010-06-26"
  epub.locale = 'ja' #defaults to 'en'

  # create test contents files
  contents = {}
  [ 'coverpage', 'chapter1', 'chapter2' ].each {
    |name|
    contents[name] = <<EOF
  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="ja" xml:lang="ja">
  <head>
  <title>sample #{name} </title>
  </head>
  <body>
  <h1>#{name}</h1>
  <p>here comes the contents for #{name}</p>
  </body>
  </html>
  EOF
  }

  # coverpage won't appear on toc, so do not call addNav
  epub.add_ordered_item('coverpage.html', StringIO.new(contents['coverpage']))
  
  chap1 = epub.add_ordered_item("chapter1.html", StringIO.new(contents['chapter1']))
  epub.add_nav(chap1, 'Chapter 1')
  chap2 = epub.add_ordered_item("chapter2.html", StringIO.new(contents['chapter2']))
  epub.add_nav(chap2, 'Chapter 2')

  # GEPUB::Book#add_ordered_item will added on <manifest> and <spine> section.
  # if you want to add image file, use GEPUB::Book#add_item instead.

  epub.generate_epub(epubname)
  
== INSTALL:

* gem install gepub

== LICENSE:

(The New BSD License)

Copyright (c) 2010-2011, KOJIMA Satoshi
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the <organization> nor the
      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL <COPYRIGHT HOLDER> BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
